Introduction
In recent years, hiking has exploded in popularity: on the widely used hiking website/app AllTrails “the number of hikes logged in 2020 was up 171.36% compared to 2019.”  With increased trail usage comes the need for accurate information as provided by various hiking apps, with AllTrails being the most-used worldwide with over 40 million users.  I chose a dataset compiling trails in National Parks as taken from AllTrails: I personally have experience exploring and using both and have found the accuracy of certain metrics (especially difficulty rating) does tend to vary.
In this analysis, I will examine what influences a hike’s difficulty rating, and recommend how to make the difficulty ratings more transparent and understandable. By having a more finely honed rating system, everyone involved will benefit: if hikers have a better understanding of what they will face difficulty-wise on a hike, enjoyment and safety will increase; if AllTrails has a reliable and objective rating system in place, app user satisfaction will increase; for National Parks (or any parks and hiking areas) hikers will be safer if they have complete information at their disposal in deciding what hike to embark on.

Data and Methodology
The dataset “National Park Trails: Every trail in the National Parks Service gathered from alltrails.com”  was compiled by user “planejane” by scraping from AllTrails’ web page by state.  Each hike listed contains trail statistics such as length, elevation gain, and difficulty rating, as well as user ratings and number of reviews posted on the AllTrails website. Another analysis of this dataset (posted on Kaggle) provided a wide overview of distribution of various metrics, with more of a focus on distribution of hikes in each state and park.  
Many of the variable names needed clarification; I was able to match most of the variables in the dataset to the corresponding metrics as listed on the AllTrails website. I also determined the units of length and elevation by comparing to the trail lengths for the same trail listing on AllTrails, and set up new columns for length and elevation in miles and feet (standard units for hiking in the US).  Finally, I added a column for ‘Steepness (% Grade)’ in order to explore a possible correlation between hike steepness and difficulty rating.
After fixing the obvious errors and omissions in the data (such as incorrect state/country names and a number of null values), I checked the hikes to ensure that they are actually hikes in National Parks. By focusing on outliers, I identified and removed the erroneously included hikes that are ‘scenic drives’ and ‘overlooks,’ and those that are in areas outside of National Parks.
After cleaning, the dataset contains 3,271 trails in 55 National Parks and 30 states, with a total of 34,904 miles of trails and 6,850,686 feet (1,297 miles) of elevation gain.
